I honestly think that you could look at
a man on the street now point at him and
have a 50 chance that he hasn't had sex
in the last year that's insane what we
want is for women to have partners that
they are fundamentally attracted to if
one sex loses both sexes lives
I asked my Twitter audience what I
should ask you since you're going to be
on the show and they want to know about
masculinity so let me ask you what does
it mean to be a real man masculinity has
a very difficult place to stand in 2023
to be able to find a place which is both
aspirational for young men to look up to
and also acceptable publicly that seems
to be a very difficult line to balance
at the moment I would certainly say that
Integrity telling the truth courage
bravery Define integrity for me your
actions and your words are lining
the things that you say that you're
going to do and the things that you
actually do the things that you do in
public and the things that you do in
private the things that you do when
nobody is watching
and the things that you do when you're
on a stage
the alignment of
Essence and action I think would be a
good way to get started with integrity
it's pretty good all right so we've got
Integrity truth bravery but I think I
interrupted a longer list courage
um
hard work perseverance protect preserve
provide
you know those are things which
typically
would have been the role of a man now
the problem that you have in the modern
era is that the two things ancestrally
that men would have done which would
have been Warfare and big game hunting
have been outsourced to the Army in the
police force and supermarkets so you
know the roles that we were here to do
ancestrally are a little bit less
opt they're less open for men to drop
into now and the question is what does
that mean why do men go from there
so where do they go they need to find
their own meaning they need to find
their own path and their own uh way to
create purpose in the world now because
gender roles are up in the air because
you have two women for every one man
completing a four-year U.S college
degree by 2030 you have 111 pounds more
being earned by women between the ages
of 21 and 29 compared with men this is
everything is up in the air everything
is available for debate at the moment
but I think it is a challenging time to
be a man at the moment in 2023 I think
that it is very hard for you to find a
firm place to stand with your
masculinity and it doesn't surprise me
that guys are retreating into porn in
video games becoming nihilistic or
cynical
um or toxic in in some ways as well like
there are a lot of different ways that
people can try and cope with this
problem and
not many of them are healthy so if
people are Outsourcing it to the police
the grocery store is there so that they
don't have to hunt what what are the
proxies so I look at you you're jacked
you've obviously spent a lot of time
putting on muscle which might be it's
one of the proxies that I would say
um in fact if I were going to force
myself to say what is a real man
um
protect for sure I'm actually we should
talk about the Disposable Male
hypothesis at some point I actually find
it really interesting so definitely
protect willing to sacrifice provide for
sure
um that's very meaningful to me even
though my wife is a successful
entrepreneur in her own right
I very much see that as a role that I
need to be prepared to do at all times
um and think and I want to stay on the
nice hot topic of being a real man so I
think because things are being
outsourced you have to structure this
yourself
um I think that protecting and providing
is good but I also think becoming high
level at relationships being a good
communicator not
um accepting some of the tropes about
oh men are quiet they don't use as many
words while I think that's true I also
don't think it's a very useful thing if
you want a fulfilling life but I think
taking care of your body and mind in
addition to your family I would put is
is pretty Paramount so do you think
about that when so if we're not going to
go to war is there a sense of going to
war with the self absolutely so I had
David Goggins on my show last week and
during that he said when you go to war
with yourself you find a lot of peace
what he means by that I think is that
inside a lot of men is a desire for
forward momentum for action for doing
things for conquer but what is there
left to conquer
or yourself
love to conquer you have all of your
inefficiencies all of the ways that you
fail forward on a daily basis conquering
that's really interesting so that's
probably a big part of why I've become
obsessed with business I never plan to
get into business I identified as an
artist growing up I wanted to be a
filmmaker
and then I realized to control the art I
had to control the resources so I had to
get into business to get rich very long
story that I'm condensing very quickly
um it's a big loop to come back to be an
artist again it is yeah and if I had to
do it over I probably wouldn't do it the
same but it ended up being incredibly
useful I would have just applied it
directly to my thing in the beginning
but the this idea of conquering I think
is really interesting and I think
there's a lot of words that are becoming
um because you said earlier to to do
these things that are ancestrally
um relevant wasn't the word you used but
that's the idea but is also socially
palatable in this day and age
um maybe I'm just old enough that I am
way less concerned about being socially
palatable and more so I like the idea of
being aggressive conquering those things
make sense to me but doing them in a
context that isn't
um abusing other people I mean Warfare
is horrific and may I never have to and
so to me in a modern context when you
have the opportunity to conquer the body
you have an opportunity to conquer the
mind and you have an opportunity to
conquer I mean that's your if you're not
going to start your own company your
role in a company
um your role as a provider in your
family you're in my case running a
business where it
you're against entropy and I feel
comfortable saying that since you have
that in your Twitter bio correct we
locally reverse entropy yeah that's what
humans do so all of that to me is really
interesting where do you come down so I
I really want to know real man so do you
think that
um conquering by proxy
is important
I think that it is a good outlet that
men can rely on to satisfy that desire
to move forward right look at sports
look at any game that you choose to
watch especially a team sport what is it
it's lopping Warfare It's Warfare right
you know you have one side and another
you have chance you have cheerleaders
you have people on the side you have
flag bearers it's [__] Warfare
so when you see
men trying to find an outlet who don't
have sport who don't have new lands to
go and Conquer who don't have big game
to hunt down they need to find something
and this is why you see the Goggins of
the world or the Cameron Haynes of the
world carrying around I was recently
with Cam Haines he made me carry a rock
a 72 pound Rock up a thousand foot
elevation Hill
back and forth between the two of us one
and a half miles it's got the word poser
written on it and the reason it says the
word poser is because people call him a
poser on the internet and he's
conquering himself he's conquering his
fears of insufficiency
and I think that like goggin said you go
to war with yourself you find an awful
lot of peace
it's a really interesting idea about
finding peace the big challenge for me
was overcoming my mind I very much had
um self-doubt insecurity all of that
growing up and I certainly wouldn't say
I'm completely on the other side of it
but when you get it to a manageable
level
it's it is a very fascinating journey
and for me it really started with a body
and my business partners and I used to
talk about Schwarzenegger a lot we are
very much of the Schwarzenegger
generation
and it was always interesting to us that
he was one of the few bodybuilders that
could transform his physique to the
level that he could which requires an
inhuman amount of discipline
perseverance going back to some of the
earlier things you said but he could
apply it to other areas of his life
and so many other people couldn't they
could transform their body but then they
it was like they couldn't abstract it to
a principle that they could apply to
other things so think about one of the
reasons I think that women like guys who
are in shape so physically it feels good
in bed and it's nice to look at and all
the rest of it but what it really is is
an identifier of the type of values that
it takes to be able to build that kind
of body
conscientiousness it's industriousness
it's hard work it's self-agency the
ability to do hard things when nobody
else is watching now all of those
manifest themselves physically in having
a good fit lean physique but what they
mean is that if this person is faced
with some other sort of challenge down
the line he's probably trustworthy he's
probably dependable
whereas somebody who doesn't have that
well I'm not too sure
and it's the same thing when it comes to
Arnold you know he was somebody that was
able to apply himself to a bunch of
other different challenges that came up
in life and he was able to I'm gonna as
austrate heavily accented Austrian man
become you know one of the greatest
action characters of all time and uh
there's a principle called the Matthew
principle from those who have everything
more will be given from those who have
nothing more will be taken
well it is but you know a small number
of the rivers have almost all of the
water a small number of the stars have
almost all of the mass a small number of
the people have almost all of the wealth
why what's because success begets more
success you don't need some ruthless
capitalistic patriarchal superstructure
to misogynistically keep everybody down
for this to happen it's just that the
people that are effective at one thing
tend to be effective at a lot of things
and that compounds over time I mean look
at you look at your show you know like
you get moving early you accumulate an
audience and audience gives you more
audience because more shares mean more
shares and more people listen and you
become better and there's a bigger
budget to be able to spend on things and
the same thing goes for me and the same
thing goes for everybody that's good at
something they start to accumulate more
and more and more and from the outside
that can look like
unfair equilibrium some sort of nepotism
or or just uh non-meritocratic system at
work but it's not it's just people that
are good at some things tend to be good
at other things as well and if you can
align your ducks in a row in the right
way then
you're at warp speed
I have a phrase uh that has served me
very well because this will seem Maybe
funny to you although you've been at
this for quite a while but when I
started in podcasting everybody was like
it's it's already played out don't
bother all the people that are going to
win have already won it's funny you've
actually uh I know you know one of the
people that told me not to do it and I
never rat them out uh I tell them
because they're such a good person I
actually love them so much but it makes
me laugh that they were like yeah don't
it would be a waste of time
and uh I said there's always room for
the best
and for anybody coming up now what's
interesting to me is that I didn't show
early signs of
um like oh this is the kid to watch the
only thing I'd going for me I was highly
verbal and that's always worked to my
advantage and I've certainly fed into
that in terms of practicing something
and trying to get even better at it but
I've told the story so many times but my
mother assumed I was going to fail my
best friend said he assumed I was going
to marshmallow my way through life the
guy who is now my father-in-law when I
asked for his Blessing to marry his
daughter he said no it was just like
nobody literally man nobody except for
my wife
saw what I could become but it really
was drive and discipline it was a just
absolutely obsessive need to get better
which was born partly of insecurity so
let's be very clear about that but it
was also what I call the only belief
that matters I believed I could get
better
and because I believed I could get
better I put my time and energy into
getting better and so I look at people
today kids today guys today whatever and
I'm just like
[__] get better like figure out what
it is that you want to be the best in
the world at and then go For Broke and
are you going to become the greatest of
all time probably not but if you can
100x where you're at now in any chosen
Direction your life is going to be a
hundred times better but people aren't
doing that and that's not being
reinforced in society and that's the
kind of thing that winds me up it's like
if if I were to tweet right now the
tweet that I want to put out be
aggressive be aggressive like the high
school chant from when I was a kid like
people are going to freak out but I
think that certainly anybody that wants
to be aggressive should be aggressive my
wife has a nice aggressive streak in her
so I've got no beef guys girls whatever
but guys a hundred percent need to
figure out that gear because I didn't
have as a as a kid and it leads
somewhere dark and terrifying and the
only way out is to realize oh I can get
better at anything but I've got to be
really aggressive about better let's
talk about confidence because I think
that's something that a lot of people
wish they had more of in their life the
strange thing about pessimism is that
the pessimist always finds out that
they're right
the pessimist will always be correct
right you believe that you can't do
something you're trying to beat the odds
by doing anything that isn't exactly
what you wanted to have happen and then
when it does happen and you end up
falling flat on your face so the world
doesn't deliver you what you wanted
maybe you're inoculated from failure
because you had such low hopes in the
first place but really being able to say
see I told you so life isn't worth
living in the first place that's a a
pretty low amount of reward to get for
that so one of my friends Alex homozy
has a quote where he says you do not
become Confident by shouting
affirmations in the mirror but by having
an undeniable stack of proof that you
are who you say you are outwork yourself
doubt what he means by that so good it's
[__] so good I [__] love Alex
amazing so uh Rogan explained it when I
was on his podcast about like building a
mountain in layers of paint
just individual iterations so I have
this uh idea called imposter adaptation
right so you know about the Imposter
syndrome which is not feeling like you
are worthy of your successes and if you
do succeed it was kind of a fluke or you
can always explain it away there's a way
that you can not make your own capacity
culpable for the things that went well
but you will make your lack of capacity
culpable for the things that go badly so
imposter adaptation is like hedonic
adaptation whereby you continue really
good yeah as you continue to get better
in the real world as you continue to
disprove your imposter syndrome Time
After Time After Time
it persists
okay well hang on a second every single
situation that I've stepped into I was
adamant that I was going to be destroyed
or flawed or failed or whatever
and I haven't
and yet this imposter syndrome sticks
about after a while
you have to admit to yourself that your
imposter Syndrome has got nothing to do
with your capacity and everything to do
with your addiction to feeling like an
imposter
why would we be addicted to that because
it's comfortable
because it doesn't cause us to get our
hopes up
if you don't believe that you can do
anything there is no fear of failure
it's the pessimists Trap yet again
it's interesting so I hear about this a
lot people self-sabotage all that stuff
because if you don't get your hopes up
then you can't fail
what I can't figure out so that created
misery in me
so in fact let me set the stage so I'm
whatever 1819 I see a movie called
Amadeus it's based on uh the real life
composer Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart and it
is there's a real life character in
there named solieri and solieri in the
the movie has this lament to God and he
says God why did you make me just
talented enough to realize I'll never be
as good as Mozart Why couldn't you have
made me like everybody else and just
love Mozart or make me as good or better
than Mozart but to make me just good
enough to realize I'll never be that
good is is devastating and I lived I I
used to think oh my God I'm understood
somebody gets me because I'm just smart
enough to realize how much smarter other
people are and it [__] with me for so
long man like it really messed with me
and I felt I always felt like I'm always
like the dumb guy in my group of friends
but I'm smart enough to realize that
they're all better than me
and it became so emotionally devastating
that I did something about it and what I
can figure out is why aren't people
doing something about it like when you
get the my wife calls it the Purgatory
of the mundane you you're in like this I
think you've said you've talked about
this where it it can you can be in a
situation where it will take you less
time to travel two miles so the region
beta paradox
says that people can imagine that you
would walk if you're going less than one
mile and you would drive if you're going
one mile or more so paradoxically you
would go two miles quicker than you
would go one line and what this
identifies is that sometimes worse
situations can be better than better
situations because they give you
activation energy to kick you out at the
bottom so you can imagine the person who
is in a bad job it's not super bad their
boss isn't that much of a dick but
they're not really fulfilled and they're
not paid very well but you know it'll
just take over someone's in a
relationship and they're not abusive but
it doesn't exactly light their fire and
they've sort of settled someone lives in
an apartment and it's in an all right
piece of town but there's mold in the
ceiling and the landlord's a bit of a
deck or whatever all of these people
would be in better situations if their
situations were worse because it would
actually give them the activation energy
to kick themselves out the other side so
we're living in a time right now I think
it's roughly one in three young men
adult young men are not having sex
haven't had sex in the last year that
number has skyrocketed in the last 10
years so something is breaking now from
the outside is a guy in my late 40s
who's been successful I look back at
that and I'm like what are you doing
so they have access to so much
information they have access to you
talking about this they have access to
just an ungodly amount of information
what what is going wrong first of all
and then why isn't it so bad that they
change because from the outside it looks
crazy that they're not making radical
changes
so the mating crisis that we're facing
at the moment which is what you're
touching on is as far as I'm concerned
the biggest problem facing young people
at the moment it is
the culture wars are going to start to
dwindle and this is going to be the next
big thing if I was to bet some money on
what's going to go on so you're right
from 2008 to 2018 the number of men
between 18 and 30 reporting you know sex
in the last year tripled from 8 to 28
that finishes in 2018 roll that forward
into the pandemic I honestly think that
you could look at a man on the street
now between the ages of 18 and 30 point
at him and have a 50 chance that he
hasn't had sex in the last year that's
insane this number went up for women as
well not as starkly as it did for men
but it did go for women too so
short-term mating is damaged now when
you're talking about the region beta
Paradox and how this relates
being Comfortably Numb or sedated out of
Effectiveness is something that I'm
quite concerned about so I think that um
a number of men we can get into this are
struggling to find a partner who is
attracted to them
that causes them to retreat into porn
and video games and what they get is a
very very very slight titrated dose of
reproductive Fitness cues from the pawn
and status and Community cues from the
video games so there's a concept called
young male syndrome right if you have a
proliferation of single childless men
you have a lot of risk-taking behavior
you get into a relationship your
testosterone drops as a man you have
children your testosterone drops again
that's adaptive because you don't want
to be out doing risky stuff jumping off
cliffs if you've got a wife and a child
at home so Evolution tells you to calm
it down a little bit so you would say
well if we have higher levels of
sexlessness and singleness amongst men
than ever before you should see an
Associated increase in in cell violence
in anti-social Behavior so on and so
forth and we haven't seen it young male
syndrome has happened throughout tons
and tons and tons of previous
civilizations Portugal in the 1700s
actually the first sun was the only one
that could get married because of an
imbalance in the sex ratio so they sent
off sons two three four and five on
these Galleon ships and they said go and
explore the new world what they were
really doing was exporting the man that
were potentially going to be disruptive
to civilization so
if we have all of these men that aren't
having sex
where's all of the disruption and it's
my belief the male sedation hypothesis
is that men are being sedated out of
their status seeking and their
reproductive desires through porn and
video games Diana Fleischman has a paper
called uncanny vulvas where she talks
about uh from uncanny valley she talks
about how
um these fake cues of reproductive
Fitness can be delivered through screens
and would it be better
to have a huge swath of high
testosterone young men running around
spray painting [__] and pushing over
granny
probably not
but it's only a margin better
for them to be so useless that they
don't do it because if something is
needed of them at some point they're not
going to have the capacity to do it and
for every step that they take further
and further into uselessness they become
less and less attractive to the women
that they're already struggling to get
into a relationship with the truth is
hitting your career goals is not easy
you have to be willing to go the extra
mile to stand out and do hard things
better than anybody else but there are
10 steps I want to take you through that
will 100x your efficiency so you can
crush your goals and get back more time
into your day you'll not only get
control of your time you'll learn how to
use that momentum to take on your next
big goal to help you do this I've
created a list of the 10 most impactful
things that any High achiever needs to
dominate and you can download it for
free by clicking the link in today's
description alright my friend back to
today's episode all right so let's start
teasing this apart so we've got the very
fascinating thing of the idea that men
are the experiment run by women correct
and so you've if women are the
GateKeeper years of sexual reproduction
then you're going to get what they have
selected over you know I mean
extraordinarily long periods of time but
you're getting what they select but
we're now entering an era where virtual
uncanny evolves I love that uh we're
virtual lives now we're beginning to
give you something that
um
would have otherwise been so absent it
would have pushed you into so much
discomfort that you have taken action
correct so now you're getting just
enough of it that you're sedated yeah I
don't know that I would say sedated
that's why I hesitated with that
um
there is
I think
there there's an undercurrent they know
something is wrong and when people pop
their head up in a sexy enough way they
respond so take Andrew Tate
so when he first kicked off I completely
ignored it and I was just like I did not
find anything about it interesting and
then it was like this is getting so big
that
the the phenomenon of it has to be
looked at and so
to the sedation hypothesis they're aware
that something is going wrong and they
know it when they see it so they got
what what let me put it into thank you
for letting me think out loud uh here's
what I think is going on we as a species
model
we need somebody to look at and go
that's dope so I had Schwarzenegger
right and people like him
grew up in the 80s big muscly dudes
everywhere and for anybody that is an
anime fan Fist of the North Star that
whole story about it was like counter
programming against sort of a more
effeminate vibe that was going on in
manga at the time this like hyper
western style masculine 80s jacked guys
like that kind of build no because
that's all like well in Super Saiyan
mode yes but this was a little bit
earlier than that so it literally looks
like a Schwarzenegger kind of character
just [__] yoked because we are
biological creatures they they have that
impulse they're looking for something to
model after that and when they don't get
it there is a sense of disease so
societally we have this disease I don't
think it's necessarily
there's something obviously to the
sedation because they're not breaking
out the the young men I get that but
there there's an awareness of the
problem from I don't feel right I don't
feel good and when I see it boom it's
explosive latching onto that so now
bringing it back to if men are the
result of what women are
breeding us to be over a very long
period of time there's also tied into
that the idea of what do I have to do to
get laid I actually debated whether my
opening question to you because a very
long time ago I was terrible with women
and I knew this guy and he was very good
for me he was very attractive and I said
to him dude how do I get laid like
what's the secret was your opening
question going to be how do I get laid
Yeah like what's the secret to getting
late I think it must be upstairs you
know just call her so hi someone called
Lisa I've learned my lesson someone ring
Lisa um yes I mean this is very very
interesting and this is a little bit
unpopular to talk about
what is unpopular exactly and why the
reason it's unpopular is because the
sexual Revolution was seen as a
universal good for women and for Society
at Large
and I'm not convinced that the evidence
bears that out for either men or women
right so as you said women are The
Gatekeepers to sex men on average for
the most part of the sexual protagonists
I'm sure that before you even met Lisa
you could probably count on one hand the
number of times that a girl comes up to
you and chats you up it's basically
never happens right it's men of the
sexual protagonists
and one of the problems that you have in
a world where sexual Norms have been
dissolved we decoupled sex from having
babies right with hormonal birth control
and we've decoupled sex from having
feelings now as well through the
dissolving of any kind of sexual norms
and sure enough there was probably some
work that needed to be done but there is
definitely something such as
overshooting so as you say women are the
sexual Gatekeepers and men will meet the
standard that they set for sex so if you
need to become an upstanding member of
the community you need to have a
reliable job you need to ask for the
daughter's father's hand in marriage
like the most difficult most
disagreeable highest criteria person
that should be in her life that's what
you have to get past
in order to be able to get married in
order to be able to get laid like that's
a lot of things that you have to do and
if that's what men have to do
sure enough they'll do it however if men
have to be in a nightclub at two o'clock
in the morning in the right place at the
right time
and that's all they need to do to get
sex they will meet that criteria
appropriately
so this isn't me saying women are at
fault for the listlessness amongst young
men but they're not completely devoid
from it either
men will meet the criteria that women
set for sex women are the demand and men
are the supply
the demand is what sets the price and if
you drop this price down too much
where is the incentive for men to be
better men now there is an incentive for
men to be better man because they want
to conquer themselves and they want to
become better in the world
that only goes so far like men have done
an awful lot of things just to get sex I
learned salsa once I learned to salsa
dance like
men will do an awful lot in order to be
able to get laid
and if the criteria that men have to
meet gets dropped down and gets dropped
down and gets dropped down
why would they work any harder why
should they become an upstanding member
of society on average men under the age
of 30 in the USA are spending two
thousand dollars a year
playing video games and 50 of them are
either on prescription drugs or smoking
weed Jesus
okay so I'm going to add a layer of
complication so I think all of that
makes all the sense in the world to me I
think though that there is maybe there's
there's two potential bigger problems so
you have lack of Brotherhood
which may also be they're getting it
through video games
um and then there is the it has become
societally unacceptable to be hard as
hell and to just be tough and to have
that held up as a standard so again just
going back to the 80s you look at media
what does media celebrate you're going
to have kids that want to be that my
generation media celebrated
hard-nosed Fighters big muscles get
through anything to save the Damsel in
Distress once you say can't have a
damsel in distress like I think because
I don't know how much you know about
what we do but so all of this everything
that you've ever seen me do everything
you know about me is just so that I can
tell stories because that is like my key
motivator in life it's the thing I love
the most
certainly have been wildly impacted by
impact theory is my theory and how to
impact people at scale is through story
so you give people this thing this ideal
to look up to and we've we've removed
the Damsel in Distress and said you
can't have that uh guys that are tough
ass hard-nosed Fighters that's all toxic
masculinity so that's all pulled away
um parents are coddling the life out of
their kids like my mom who was very
protective by those standards would just
let me ride my bike miles away from the
house and we would go to like a bike
track and do jumps no parents nobody
watching older kids beat up younger kids
it just is what it is and
like that was the thing so you've got
all of that stuff and now you have and
there's no coming-of-age ritual nothing
like that and so kids don't have role
models to look up to they're told that
all their impulses to be aggressive to
be tough to play rough all of that is
bad and negative and it should be wiped
away and all of the media is like
ah now we're really gonna open a can of
worms so there's a reason that there is
one anime called Demon Slayer sorry
there's one manga called demon cellular
it also happens also be an anime that
outsells the entire Western comic book
market so Batman Spider-Man Superman
Wonder Woman X-Men uh Teenage Mutant
Ninja Turtles all of it together is
outsold by Demon Slayer and the reason
is they did not get the the culturally
appropriate memo and so they make
content for 12 year old boys and they
make content for 12 year old girls and
they do not try to blend them and by
trying to blend our entertainment and
not giving guys basically Rock'em
sock'em robots fighting blood uh girls
scantily clad all of that
you just sort of get this like milk
toast Sticky Thing yeah like what what
exactly am I aspiring to so women are
holding us
it is not women's fault I want to be
hyper clear this is a societal problem
that is everybody's in the mix so all
I'm saying is everybody's gonna have to
contribute so I'm by the way a personal
responsibility guy I'm only interested
hey if you have a problem you need to do
something about it just be very clear
because I can hear the comment section
going crazy already there's a low bar
for sex correct there are no
um
manly men to look up to there are no
coming-of-age rituals anymore and we
have the the new opioid for the masses
if you used to be religion now it is
video games we whatever
and that combination is
terrifyingly lethal
let's talk about the uh potential
pushback that you might get from girls
here and quite rightly like
girls needed equal access to education
and employment there were restrictive
sexual Norms that stopped them from
doing whatever it was that they wanted
to do there are articles that you can
see in magazines like Cosmopolitan and L
that say things like how to sleep with
him and not catch feels
how to sleep with him and not catch
feels okay so what you're teaching young
girls to do is disembody themselves from
the most sacred act that they can do
which is allowing another person inside
of them
to the point where they negate any sense
of connection emotionally
and you want to call that freedom
I'm not convinced that that makes girls
particularly free
if I was a mother and I had a daughter
I would not want her to lean into that
kind of a lifestyle
I think that I would want her to
treat it as something that was sacred I
think that that sounds a lot like
freedom but that's not for me to say
that you shouldn't do it okay so the
manly man thing
where are the manly manner well they
tried to push a more feminine view of
men in romance novels and dark romance
novels especially in the mid-2010s and
it didn't sell well it didn't sell well
because on average not that many women
are fantasizing about a very agreeable
sort of soft effeminate man they wanted
a man that was going to be useful in a
war and useful at parenting children
like those are the two things right
so what you have is the difference
between stated and reveal preferences so
what happens what is popular to be put
out there this is something that should
be aspired to you know [__] Timothy
chalamet is a cool guy and Harry Styles
in a dress you know those are guys I'm
sure that they absolutely slay however
most guys can't pull that off and when
you throw that out into the realm of
female attraction
those sorts of novels don't seem to sell
well so you have
fewer and fewer traditionally masculine
roles that men can step into in terms of
Role Models then you have this sort of
stated preference by the media that
anything where you do start to Veer
toward that is toxic you have this sort
of disembodied uh
cultural milieu where women are supposed
to give away sex completely freely and
call it Freedom that's not for me to say
I'm not antique dude I ran nightclubs
for 15 years right I've met a million
people in my life this was the world
that I existed in but I think that over
time most of the guys and girls that I
worked with come out the other side and
what they realized was that actually I I
really do want to be in a committed
relationship with somebody that I
respect and I do want to treat my body
like it's something which is sacred this
isn't
restrictive sexual Norms making another
rise to try and keep women down or men
this is
treating your body like something that
you should care about
and treating your spirit like something
that should be kept sacred
let's talk about the spirit so I am
I was deeply impacted by a book called
The Power of myth and in the book
um written by a guy named Joseph
Campbell
he talks about how he thinks a big part
of the divorce rate is that there are no
um no more rituals so marriage rituals
have lost sort of all their teeth
there's no coming-of-age rituals
certainly not for guys
and so there's no transitional moments
and when I think about
the spirit I think about how are you
contextualizing something how are you
looking at it what what have you decided
what meaning have you decided to ascribe
to this thing
and one we have I mean talk about
something that I I don't know the stats
on and all that but I know that there's
a fatherless crisis going on that you
have more and more homes where kids are
being raised without a father
there is a sense that you don't really
there's not really a distinction between
the genders and even if there was do you
really need somebody that's masculine to
bring anything to the table and
then you start looking at things like
um
not having a coming-of-age ritual not
growing up with a father not having
masculine role models and how much of
this is playing into it so anyway I read
this book I'm deeply impacted by this
idea of there need to be coming of age
rituals and so when I got married I
decided that I was going to really put
myself through something I wanted to be
a tattoo person I did yeah so but I
again this comes back to how do you
contextualize it so I I don't think of
it as a tattoo obviously it is and
that's how it manifests whatever but I
didn't think of it like that I didn't
treat it like that I don't think of it
like that now it's the only tattoo I got
it's the only tattoo I will ever get
because for me I wanted to
ritualistically scar myself to be
different before and after getting
married and I wanted it to be painful
and so it was like I was thinking about
all these things okay I want it to be
meaningful I want it to be painful I
want it to be permanent so it literally
was do I brand myself or do I get a
tattoo and dude I mean there it is not
causative but I've been married for 20
years
and
having something like that where you say
I'm going to ascribe a lot of meaning to
this I'm going to do something that is
important
and I don't know have you read long walk
to Freedom by Nelson Mandela he has got
to be the person I admire the most like
just of all the humans that are modern
enough that I have a very tangible way
to get to know their thought process so
he writes this book about his long
walked freedom and in it he talks about
what his tribe did to kids I think when
they turned 14 they do this whole
ceremonial thing where you start with
your mother and the men burst into the
home and they rip you away from the
mother and they strip you naked and they
bring you in front of the whole tribe
and then I think there was like four or
five boys that they did this at the same
time they sit you naked they make you
splay your legs and then the shaman or
whatever
has a really sharp Rock and he grabs
your foreskin and he pulls it out and he
[__] slices it off no anesthetic and
you have to yell a warrior prayer
and then they cover you in mud and then
a young woman I don't know how they
select her cleans all the mud off your
body at the end of it and I was just
like damn man like that that's not fancy
that
I did I actually was look would I have
wanted that to happen Lisa's
acceptance if you were going to get rid
of your foreskin already my parents took
care of that very early but I want to
know who that he could have been a
question darling who owns the force is
it a sort of a co-ownership thing here
is it mine is it ours is it our foreskin
yeah but anyway yes
so I I think
there there are things that we can do to
build structure back into this stuff to
start giving people
landmarks
to Anchor their identity to construct
the person that they want to become so
that they can end up
escaping out of
this gray goo or whatever you called it
which culturally seems to be
unintentionally I think everybody had
great intentions but when I think about
how we get back out of this
it's interesting it it comes back to the
idea that you've been talking about that
Jocko has I think a really just cut to
the heart of the issue discipline equals
Freedom that there need to be a vision a
structure that you can articulate
something that you can say this is a
real man and then aim for it
work at it every day I did a a tweet
Thread about this now this is what I
think a man is and I don't always hit it
but I'm certainly striving towards it
but without a Clear Vision Without
something that people can articulate
without something that people are
building towards
just drifting the problem that you have
is
without any Grand narratives to hold
everybody together you and that
traditionally would have been religion
right that would have been this Arc this
single unifying principle that held
everyone together and everything has
been left Up For Debate and that's fine
like progress is absolutely great but
there's been a lot of baby that I think
has been thrown out with the bathwater
you know whether it be courting rituals
Coming of Age rituals
um
values that both men and women should
take from themselves like for instance
the fact that women are really
emotionally intelligent why should it be
the case that women should dispel with
that because that's maybe a more
classically feminine trait well that's
that is your power as a woman that is
your feminine wisdom if you've got execs
or people that work here quite rightly
you want them to be the ones that are
able to step in and use that ability
you'll say Okay so the the Fantastic
ability that you have to be able to
really attentively tune in to other
people's emotions within the office
don't do that what I'm going to get you
to to do is try and reverse engineer
some other idea of what I think that a
woman's role should be because this is
now what we would potentially call
Freedom I think that it's
very easy to throw everything up in the
air and to try and start from scratch
all of the different designs for what
men and women should do within their
life and if you don't have these rituals
if you don't have these roles if you
don't have these role models
you're going to really struggle
do you think that we need clearly to
find gender roles
[Music]
I think that men and women have
biological predispositions that cause
them to be better suited toward
different sorts of tasks
uh for instance
spatial rotation
at the age of three boys show around
about a 50 to 70 better throwing
accuracy
compared with girls
women on the other hand have better I
think it's called local recall and this
is why men always lose their keys but
women can tell where it is and let's
think about why this might be the case
men ancestrally would have been looking
at things that were running perhaps
sideways along to them with a spear in
the hand that means that spatial
rotation being able to manipulate 3D
objects in space in their mind and then
cause that to happen in the real world
would have been really really adaptive
also if women are staying at home and
they are moving around the local area
perhaps picking berries perhaps making
sure that all of the children are being
looked after this is the tree that's
good at this time of year this is the
tree that's not so good at this time of
the year they're supposed to be good at
that as well like does this mean that
women are supposed to be condemned to be
domestic prostitutes looking after the
household no obviously not but it means
that there are capacities that each
different sex has
that dispose them to doing different
things I mean this is Peterson's whole
thing right you turn a society more
egalitarian and you end up having more
men going into stem and more women going
into care roles there are
four times as many female fighter pilots
in the U.S Air Force as there are male
kindergarten teachers in the USA by
percentage by percentage Yeah so two
percent two percent of kindergarten
teachers are male and eight percent of
U.S Air Force fighter pilots are female
now I'm perfectly happy to have a
conversation about whether there should
be more female fighter pilots but there
definitely should be more male
kindergarten teachers as well and why is
that well it's because it seems to be
that
wait why do you think there should be
more more male kindergarten teachers why
if people are just selecting out
because they serve as a very good role
model to both deal with boisterous boys
and also educate them effectively I
think that the educational outcomes that
you get from young boys especially when
they have a male teacher seem to be
better and if you are only getting a 1
in 50 chance that you're ever going to
deal with a male teacher as a young boy
kindergarten though correct so all right
so if Peterson's right well it's not
even Peterson Peterson's just relaying
the stats if the stats are correct and
the more opportunities you give people
through social safety nets that the more
they go hardcore in traditionally male
jobs like engineering and traditionally
female jobs like nursing care
how
how do you think about that in terms of
the kindergarten teachers because it
would seem that just many more
interesting things women are more
interested in people and when it comes
to kids like I would rather have my eyes
gouged out than become a kindergarten
teacher that sounds like a unique form
of hell
perhaps it does but there's also a lot
of other things that people have to do
because they serve the wider Society oh
damn do you want to conscript people
into being kindergarten teachers I
certainly think as Richard Reeves calls
it that the heel uh the stem and then
this heal and it's like
um Hospital workers education summing in
something else right it's a more a more
sort of soft side that men who have got
uh labor force participation rates
amongst men have declined by 0.1 percent
every month since 1950. whoa 87 in 1950
to now 68 today in in those fields or
fall just period everything what yep
labor force participation
Define labor force participate it sounds
like you're saying that 30 plus percent
of guys just aren't working
that seems to be the case what that
seems to be where the stats are what the
stats are showing yeah whoa I had no
idea this sounds so crazy that's what
the the projections suggest that 65 only
65 of men in America will be
participating in the labor force now
this may be the absolute like fine-tuned
bits of the data Maybe is it a full-time
job is it contract can people be doing
stuff on the side but men typically in
that labor force participation so you
have an Ever decreasing group of men
that are participating in the labor
force and opening them up into new job
roles might be a great way to get them
back into it the reason I think that
having male kindergarten teachers
especially is important is that they can
control boisterous boys and that they
can coach young boys that are coming
from increasingly fatherless homes on
how to behave the I mean when we're
talking about this predisposition thing
again as well
it is so apparent that men and women
have different natures
from the get-go three-year-olds there's
a really really fantastic bunch of
researchers Dr Tanya Reynolds Jamie
krams uh Christina Durante all of these
are evolutionary psychology people Joyce
beninson is the leader of this
particular thing Joyce Bennington
observed a turn of kindergarten children
right ages three to five and if you
watch what boys do they will find an
enemy that they need to band together
against maybe it's aliens maybe it's
Cowboys maybe it's whatever they will
band together and they will go and take
them down if you look at what the girls
are doing they are trying to keep
something alive for the most part it's
your rabbit it's your baby it's the the
person so interesting so why is that the
case this isn't socialization this is
cross-culturally you see this when you
give chimps you give girl like baby girl
chimps a soft toy to cuddle they will
cuddly you give the boy a stick and
he'll throw it like a male and female I
guess
this predisposition is before
socialization and it does a disservice
to the Natural wisdom that males and
females have to say that it's not
something that should be that should be
used so going back to the labor force
participation thing I
really think that we're going to have a
mating crisis on our hands which is
driven out of education and employment
and on the other side of this you have a
a smaller cohort of men that women are
going to find attractive that's not good
for the women either
women want a mate that they can contend
with they want a mate that they feel
they are attracted to that they can
respect and admire and so do men and
right now you have an ever increasing
cohort of high performing women
competing for another decrease in cohort
of ultra high performing men so how do
we balance that out so it's not putting
breaks back on the women correct
so that's the first that's the first
thing that this conversation needs to
get out front and it's the main thing
that this conversation gets wrong as
soon as you say
two women for every one man completing a
four-year us college degree women on
average earning 1 111 pounds more than
men do between the ages of 21 and 29 oh
so what you're saying is that you want
to actually drag women back they've only
just recently got educational employment
and uh parity
no I'm not saying that that is
absolutely not what you need to have
happen
is it possible for women to
fundamentally become attracted to men
that are less educated or less employed
than they are that's also quite
difficult the ground truth of hypergamy
railing against that is like railing
against the laws of thermodynamics women
date across or up correct hypergamic
correct exactly so on average women want
to date a man that's as educated or more
educated and as wealthy or wealthier
this is on average there are women who
can find you know white collar women
that can date Blue Collar guys but
you're booking the trend if you do that
this is what I call the tall girl
problem right so everybody has a girl
friend who is six foot without heels and
if she wants to wear heels on the night
out and look pretty she's looking at
professional athletes for her dating
because on average women want to date a
man that's about 21 centimeters taller
than they are how many inches is that
seven whoa okay Jesus I didn't realize
it was such a big difference so I heard
you say once and it really hit when you
were describing that you're like look if
you're a tall woman you might be willing
to date a guy that's a couple inches
shorter than you the odds of you dating
somebody that's 10 shorter than you no
yes probably not going to happen and so
you begin to see the discrepancy in
earning power etc etc can become a
problem real fast all right so we're not
re-breaking women no but we are doing
what so one of the problems you have is
that trying to raise up Men's uh
achievement educationally and in terms
of employment is very difficult like how
do you
if you're not putting the brakes on
women how are you putting the gas on men
so to speak we can't
we don't want to stop women from
achieving and we can't beat the
thermodynamics of hypergamy right so you
need to use cultural technology to try
and fix this problem in some way or
another I think one of them would be to
repudestalize Motherhood I think that
bought it back on a pedestal yes correct
I think that if you derogate motherhood
and basically treat it like if a woman
becomes a mother she is a second class
citizen that got rubed into being a
domestic prostitute by the patriarchy so
well
I don't know man like being a mother
seems like a pretty [__] important
job to me
I don't think that that seems to be some
sort of second-class Citizen are you
saying that your mother's a second-class
citizen my mum stayed at home and looked
after me for the first nine years that I
was alive I think that that was her
being a second class citizen all I think
it was an unbelievably Noble sacrifice
that she stopped her career to raise me
when I meet parents I actually thank
them for their service and I'm not
joking I'm not trying to be talking yeah
because I don't have kids somebody has
to like we need people raising children
well my wife has this really cool story
we were in line at a bar she was in line
at a buffet when behind her asks like oh
what are you doing my wife starts
describing a question and all that this
is back then and the woman was like Lisa
said you know what are you doing she's
like oh I'm just a mother and Lisa was
like hold the phone like that is one of
the most important things you could ever
do like that what a gift all this stuff
and I was like wow thank you so much for
saying that
and when Lisa was telling me I was like
wow that's crazy because when I was a
kid that was still like yo mom's like
the hardest thing ever like yes there
and my mom was a boss at being a mom
like my mom didn't work same as yours
for a very long time uh but my mom like
to raise me I don't wish that on my
worst enemy and uh my mom was a badass
man like a real beta so anyway I think
that's hugely important so yes when I
see parents I'm like thank you honestly
for your service I really appreciate it
what is up my friend Tom bilyu here and
I have a big question to ask you how
would you rate your level of personal
discipline on a scale of one to ten if
your answer is anything less than a ten
I've got something cool for you and let
me tell you right now discipline by its
very nature means compelling yourself to
do difficult things that are stressful
boring which is what kills most people
or possibly scary or even painful now
here is the thing achieving huge goals
and stretching to reach your potential
requires you to do those challenging
stressful things and to stick with them
even when it gets boring and it will get
boring building your levels of personal
discipline is not easy but let me tell
you it pays off in fact I will tell you
you're never going to achieve anything
meaningful unless you develop discipline
right I've just released a class from
Impact Theory university called how to
build Ironclad discipline that teaches
you the process of building yourself up
in this area so that you can push
yourself to do the hard things that
greatness is going to require of you
right click the link on the screen
register for this class right now and
let's get to work I will see you inside
this Workshop from Impact Theory
University until then my friends be
legendary peace out
the careerism that we're seeing amongst
young women like absolutely if you've
spent a ton of time in University like
quite right you should lean into your
career for as long as you want but
80 of women who are childless are
involuntarily childless right
that means that they didn't plan to not
have kids and to not have a family well
what percentage 80
. so of all women that are childless and
this is uh from a Dutch study Professor
rinska it's a matter analysis from 2010.
okay I was going to say this has to be
super recent so they're getting caught
off I'm in a run my career correct I
think I'm good I'm a boss [__] and then
39 rolls around it's like yo this isn't
fun yeah and they're really struggling
um so I mean and this is brutal for
these women so there's an entire support
group there's a number of support groups
so if there is a any women listening who
feel like they're in this cohort
somebody that plans to have a family and
haven't if you have a quick Google there
are a bunch of support groups that seem
to be really really great online
um but
a really great friend Stephen Shaw who'd
just released a documentary called birth
Gap talks about this that these were in
mourn for a family that they never had
and they talk about like grief but no
one no one died it's that no one was
born
that's heavy man and when you think
about the fact that there's a bunch of
things going on here an over belief in
like fertility treatments being super
super effective and oh well you know
I've heard that more women had children
over the age of 40 than under the age of
20 in 2019 in the UK which is true but
it doesn't say how hard or easy it was
it's not easy and going on IVF is brutal
on a woman's body I wouldn't some of the
stories that some of my friends wives
have had that have been on it they find
themselves buying mountains of pink
doilies and stuff because they've just
got these floods of hormones going
through their body and they wake up the
next day from this stupid like what the
[__] just happened to me so you have
um women that leave it too late
basically and if you've spent a good bit
of time in school why not like why
wouldn't you want to lean into I'm going
to lean into my employment for a good
amount of time like no one definitely
not me is trying to pull that back from
women they absolutely should have that
but they need to know that there are
some hard ground truths to their
biological age which means that if you
want to have a family you cannot leave
it until you are 35 and if you do you
can leave it until you're 35.
if you leave it until then you are gonna
start fighting with odds in a very
dangerous way and one of the other
things I mean Leonardo DiCaprio showed
this pretty perfectly that men really
seem to Value youth in a partner and for
all that it is great that women can go
and get the PHD and the six figure
income and all the rest of it you're
going to be competing with a 21 year old
Barista from Starbucks can we just say
the hard truth what guys don't care how
much money you make correct women it
isn't an advantage cool if you want to
do it I love it the most remember I'm
married to a female who prides herself
in being an entrepreneur total hardcore
all of that but God
let me tell you as I would tell my wife
and half like that isn't what excites me
about her in the business it's amazing
because she's so [__] good yeah but
as far as like what I'm attracted to in
a woman
correct literally not only not only does
it not matter
as so my wife and I have been talking
about this I'm sure that many people
have had this realization long before me
but here is something I find utterly
fascinating
a woman if you really want the cheat
code like you want to like really make a
woman feel good with you of course you
have to love and support but even the
word support is different I wouldn't say
a guy necessarily would rank support
that eye you have to love and support a
woman
but if you really want to unlock things
you have to make her feel beautiful and
safe
if you make her feel beautiful and safe
you're amazing now if you want the flip
on a guy I think it's loved and
appreciated far more than supported
because I want to sacrifice for you
going back to the Disposable Male
hypothesis I'm prepared to die for you I
don't want you to support me I want you
to let me support you and I want you to
celebrate that instead of be like well
you're doing that for you no I'm not
like you may not have asked it of me but
I am doing it very specifically for you
that feels so powerful and then the
other two elements that if a woman
really wants to unlock a guy you want to
make him feel powerful
like if you make a guy feel
powerful
you you've just
unlocked everything you could ever hope
to unlock but that means that I want to
out earn you I want to outperform you in
certain things long story there but yeah
there are some unfortunate ground truths
to hypergamy here as well so
um in relationships where the woman out
earns the man they're 50 more likely to
end in divorce in relationships where
the woman contributes more than 80 of
the household income they're twice as
likely to end a divorce women on average
are three times more likely than men to
say that they wouldn't get into a
relationship with a man who was less
educated or less employed than they are
all of this together is not to be the
one about erectile uh 50 in
relationships where the woman out owns
the man they are the man is 50 more
likely to have to use erectile
dysfunction medication can every woman
just slow down I've heard you say that
before it's like I want everybody to
slow down and hear that
guys want to feel powerful okay I'm at
the risk of just obliterating my own
channel
yeah here here is
what I want people to understand and
going back to guys Gentlemen please hear
me when I say to your point the most
sacred thing that
men and women can do together is have
sex
but now really think about what that is
for a second
the messy reality of what that is you as
a woman you are inviting a man inside
you to use your words that that's a big
[__] thing like to what I want guys
to understand
you have to be worthy of that get worthy
of that moment yes not not that you were
clever you know in like the makeup
artist kind of way yeah no no no really
be somebody for when when everybody's
stone cold sober and we're in the cold
light of day and we're 10 years into a
relationship that she looks across at
you and is like damn you're worthy of
that that to me like if a real man is
that that was always the problem with
the pickup artist stuff because what it
was doing was it was you playing a role
to be the person that she would actually
be attracted to but she was never
attracted to you she was attracted to
the role that you were playing right
that's not that's not attraction okay so
we have this uh sort of unfortunate
imbalance in the dating market right
that this ever increasing cohort of high
performing women have an Ever decreasing
cohort of ultra high performing men
across here this means men don't care
how much you make and if you make too
much more than them they need
so we don't know where that comes from I
really really don't I mean what we don't
know why it's the case we don't know
whether it is a byproduct of the type of
relationship that the men and women have
we don't know whether I'm gonna guess
it's just a guess but I feel very
confident in saying he doesn't feel
powerful what what has he conquered so I
really think without War the thing for
people to conquer is either your career
or a company to to start and run your
own company that's it that's your proxy
go forth and prosper like you're being
out earned by yourself yes she's dunking
on you and so it doesn't feel good and
to your point about we are locally
fighting entropy we're locally comparing
ourselves so you're going to compare
yourself to your wife now it or your
girlfriend whatever in the beginning I
made the mistake I want people to hear
me very clearly
in the beginning I thought my wife
needed me to be better at everything for
her to find me sexually attractive
that's 100 not true and no one would
want to be in a relationship with
somebody that's better than them at
everything but this is where you really
have to like my wife and I talk about
what is she good at what am I good at so
that one there's space for that person
to go and be great at their things and
we're not and you know we don't end up
competing at things and this is we
really have to pay attention this
because we build a company together yes
and so you want to talk about danger
danger Will Robinson is just a whole
other level but anyway so
he's taking the erectile dysfunction
medication because speaking from
experience like in that moment I want to
feel powerful not I I'm not looking for
somebody who I'm not trying to be
dominant I'm not looking for her to be
submissive but I want to feel powerful
in that moment so I've got this story
about uh psychiatric patients in the
blitz so during World War II London is
being bombed by the Germans and it's
this very very aggressive period of
bombardment most of the men are already
doing jobs either fighting the war
they're away overseas they're part of
the home front or they are um trying to
rebuild things they're working as police
officers etc etc most of the women are
also working they're working as nurses I
mean they're part of the artillery
production they were being pushed into
factories all sorts of things so you
basically didn't have sufficient people
to do extra jobs that were required now
bombs are dropping on Britain and you
need ambulance drivers and fire truck
drivers in order to be able to get to
the fires that are caused by the bombs
though these psychiatric patients that
had been comatose in clinics for you
know sometimes five ten years completely
unresponsive just catatonic and they
would be rolled over the bedpans would
be clean they'd be fed some food or
whatever and they'd be left
Pfizer LIT All Around London because of
these bombs that have been dropped on
them
and there's no one to drive the fire
trucks and these men that have been
unresponsive for five or ten years
set up
get dressed go downstairs and they start
driving fire trucks and ambulances what
if you give a man a purpose and the
ability to achieve it he will crawl over
broken glass with a smile
that story suggests that
feeling powerful and competent is
something that can generate an awful lot
of
um good sensation of motivation of
discipline in the best most service
Community oriented uh
form of the word right
um but I think we need to kind of
probably close some potentially
toxic open Loops that we've got here
with regards to this dynamic between men
and women
it is not the case that the only way
that we can have successful
relationships is to drag women's uh drag
women back or to somehow give men unfair
advantages to try and push them out
ahead
that is not what either of us are trying
to put forward in this conversation we
agree what we want is for women to have
partners that they are fundamentally
attracted to if you cannot find a
partner that you genuinely are attracted
to and that you genuinely genuinely want
that's not good for you either if one
sex loses both sexes lose right that is
really really important when it comes to
the solutions it's difficult man I'm
writing a book on this at the moment and
it is not
it is not an easy what's the book about
exactly The Mating crisis
this imbalance between the Sexes that
we've got at the moment uh the grand
truth of hypergamy and how that is
causing this ever increasing group of
women to chase after an Ever decreasing
group of men I'm sure that you've seen
the statistics from Tinder the bottom 80
of men can beat for the bottom 20 of
women and the top 80 of women compete
for the top 20 of men now these men are
commitment to verse so quite rightly
they have The Pick of whoever it is that
they want but that means that they can
run through this big cohort of women
which leaves them heartbroken that
doesn't seem so going back to your
earlier point because you said quite
rightly
it's not good for the guys so to
continue the clues close some of these
Loops so the reason that I've been
married to the same woman for 20 years
and by the way she got with me when I
was broke so uh and she helped build all
of this I mean literally side by side
the whole way but now I'm rich man even
if she took half my [__] I'd still be
just ridiculous yeah that Lisa and so uh
I could I I could and I mean back at
Quest it was ridiculous all the like
Fitness girls like oh the time correct
which is pretty funny I don't and the
reason that not only do I not I wouldn't
if my wife were horribly burned I've
thought about this so much so the
experiment that I'm running that I
invite men and highly encourage them to
run is what does it look like when you
share your life with somebody
now I think that there are ground truths
there's no doubt if you were to check my
brain the odds that I have unusually
high receptors for like oxytocin and
vasopressin is is almost guaranteed
because I get so much out of bonding
with my wife men and women are supposed
to complement each other they're not
supposed to be adversaries right so
intra-sexual competition competition
within the sex is significantly greater
than intra intersexual competition right
competition across it's the reason why
to use one example is why women [__]
shame Modern Men you know [__] shaming
is the sort of thing that if you
listened to the news it would be or
mainstream media it would be the sort of
thing that you hear men as [__] shaming
women out of that recently acquired
sexual Liberation it's not it's that
German comes from women
[__] shaming is a price enforcement
mechanism to ensure that no one one
woman drops the price of sex below a
level at which almost all women would be
acceptable so that's I didn't mean you
are women and we're going out on a date
I'm prepared to give blow jobs on the
third date but you're prepared to give
them a second date oh I'm the I'm very
easy one I'm afraid you are yeah very
hungry this evening and what that means
is that I have to drop my price for sex
down so an easy way to ensure that no
one woman does that is to do [__]
sharing now it's a price enforcement
mechanism from women onto other women
now I believe that the alternative on
the other side of this is simp shaming
for men so if you imagine that what
slutshaming does is it stops women from
giving away sex without commitment
what simping does for men is stops men
from giving away commitment without sex
so men have a particular sort of ick
that they feel some men do about guys
that subscribe to only fans guys that
kind of buy girl's stuff from Amazon
gift list lists wish lists and stuff
like that and I think that the reason
for that is they know that that man is
offering up part of what a relationship
should be whilst not asking for anything
in return in exactly the same way that
some women have a problem with girls
that give sex away too easily because
they know that that is supposed to be
something which is supposed to be also
part of a relationship and that is being
given away without asking for the
commitment in return
so
when you're talking about your
relationship with your wife and the fact
that you guys complement each other
that's exactly how it should be and
here's another element of solutions to
The Mating crisis right stopping the
adversarial conversations between men
and women yes turning down the volume of
the conversation around this like
you want to have men and women seeing
each other as compatriots not
competitors they want to be
collaborators right they're supposed to
work together and for women to say you
know you could imagine that you're on
some awful daytime TV show and to say
like uh women are out earning man and
um they're out educating man as well and
some sassy person to then go like hoop
and holler and like this is you know
this is you're just scared that we're
taking your money away from you and you
go
do you not want to have a partner that's
competent like this hurts you as well
this imbalance in the dating Market is
not fantastic for the women who want to
have a partner and this has shown up in
the fact that they're having higher
rates of sexlessness than ever
50.1 percent of women are childless at
30 for the first time in history more
women without children at 30 than with
women for the first time ever 51 of
women from the ons data that came out of
the UK in 2020 gave birth to children
outside of civil unions or marriage
which means that they were either single
or just in a relationship like that is
not necessarily the most
secure Foundation within which women can
start to build a family like do you not
want commitment from your partner oh
marriage is an archaic institution and
blah blah blah it's like it's pretty
good at creating a foundation for
building a family on top of and um
I really want to kind of turn down the
volume of that of that conversation men
and women are supposed to raise each
other up you want to have a huge cohort
of guys that you can find attract
attractive and guys want to find a huge
cohort of women that find them
attractive uh I suppose another concern
that you have here especially with that
you know top 20 of men is that I don't
think that their behavior is
particularly good for most men either if
your idea and this comes back to your I
committed I made this decision that I'm
never going to have sex with another
woman remembering that men have a huge
uh hugely greater desire for sexual
variety when men have sexual fantasies
they cycle through different partners
pretty consistently whereas women tend
to just have a if men are so funny if
men read erotica novels each chapter
would be a different woman yeah when
women read erotica novels it's one
protagonist throughout the entire book
right because it's this investment have
you read the book a billion Wicked
thoughts no oh my God read it dude read
it immediately okay so writing the book
that you're writing you absolutely must
I'm not kidding okay it was said it's
gonna be in the episode people will know
if you've read this book it is utterly
fascinating and it goes into basically
the big problem with sex studies
everybody lies even if you tell them
that it's going to be kept Anonymous
nobody's going to tell you the truth and
then these Google Engineers realize wait
a second we have a decade plus of
anonymous data from Google searches so
we know exactly what men search for and
exactly what women search for and it is
hilarious guys are like literally the
body parts and just an unimaginable
amount of variety like everything you
could possibly imagine and women are
like a thousand page novel and on the
final page they finally hold hands and I
thought oh my God this is hilarious and
the if if men and women just understood
how Divergent those fantasies are
we'd be a lot better off I am very
grateful that uh when since I never
finished this story when I sat down uh
with the guy who was very successful
with women and I said what's the secret
to getting laid uh he said you just need
to be an [__] and I was I wanted to
bang my head through a table I was like
there's no way that cliche is true it's
there's no way and so first of all I've
seen this guy around at not his
girlfriend but I'd seen him with other
women and I'm like he he's not an
[__] he's Charming so what does he
mean because there's a reason that
people keep repeating that and so I was
like okay if what he means is be
unapologetically myself be completely
willing to walk away and effectively be
the bat symbol in the sky for the woman
who's gonna like me for who I actually
am that makes sense and so I'm gonna
assume that's what he means because he
himself is not an [__] and so I
started acting like that and it worked
so well it was like flipping a switch
where I couldn't get laid to
being myself look you have there are
things that you have to be to attract
somebody I get that
but
by working out looking decent taking
care of myself being hyper ambitious
which was a big part of what attracted
women in the beginning being articulate
passionate okay set those aside because
you do have to have that bundle of
things but once I had that and then I
was like oh you're not into me fine not
not spiteful not angry about it just oh
cool no worries so on I think it was
literally the first date with the woman
who became my wife I was just like
dude if I'm with somebody I know they're
always going to find somebody else
attractive and I'm going to find other
people attractive and I don't want them
to lie to me like of course you would
find this was at the height of Brad
Pitt's like Fight Club Brad Pitt and I
was like of course you're gonna find
Brad Pitt attractive like and if you're
telling me that you don't that you only
have eyes for me that's gonna make me
insecure because now I can't trust you
one of the questions that people might
be asking would be something like um why
should I care about getting into a
relationship at all so this is an
unclosed Loop that we've got here you
know we've spoken about the fact that
women are struggling to find men that
they're attracted to that is really not
good for women and men are struggling to
find women who are attracted to them not
very good for men but there would still
be a question of well why does this even
matter why does getting into a
relationship at all why should we care
about this and there's Stephen Shore guy
the guy that wrote birth Gap traveled
around 24 different countries and he
went to a funeral directors in Germany
Germany has one of the
um bigger birth Gap defaults here so you
have this ever increasing elderly
population and it's mostly people who
are single the reason that it's elderly
is because fertility rates are
staying similar in terms of how fertile
people are but the partnering is is
dropping through the floor and he goes
to speak to this Undertaker and this
Undertaker says to him that for the
first time in his career history he is
doing funerals for people both men and
women
and nobody's attending oh God
so when they cut the clothes off these
people because they are ready to embalm
them or or dress them or whatever to do
this ceremony which no one's going to go
to they don't know they find strap marks
bruises on their arms and they find
bruises up here as well and it seems
like the carers that have been looking
after them have been abusing them Jesus
so you have this group of
elderly people with no family that are
alone and then in the final few years of
their life they're being mistreated by
the people that are supposed to be
caring for them and then after they're
gone they have a funeral that no one
attends that to me
does not seem like a particularly free
world it doesn't seem like a
particularly enjoyable existence it's
free it's not very interesting it's how
do you combat that so
men and women need each other dude
people are supposed to be in
Partnerships married couples live longer
they've got a greater Health spanth
they've got greater lifespans they
offset alcymic and dementia
onset by a significant amount of time
you're supposed to be with people you're
supposed to have communities you're
supposed to have friends and you're
supposed to be in a relationship like if
you are on your own you were dead
ancestrally and your body will respond
appropriately I'm not saying that
everybody needs to have kids and having
kids is not for everybody but it's for
most people right if you are and you and
your wife a perfect example of this two
people for whom kids wasn't the right
choice and you are perfectly happy
without them if you can accept the
following statement as fact and go into
it with your eyes wide open then I'm
open and that is you will regret not
having kids
and if you understand that life is
broken into phases everything is what I
call frame of reference so if when you
get to 80 you're going to regret it I
guarantee it I'm not asking you I'm
telling you you're going to regret not
having children I will regret not having
children my point is that we have this
ever more Singleton Society right using
sex in a transactional manner I was on
two dating shows I did love Island the
first season in the UK I did take me out
which is another prime time TV dating
show as well I stood on the front door
of a thousand nightclubs and met a
million people between the ages of 18
and 25 for 15 years I have seen the
transactional nature I've worked in the
trenches right I've been there I've been
to the summit of this particular
mountain and I'm not saying that I want
to roll back people being able to do
what they want with casual relationships
what I want to remind people of is that
there is a lot more to life than simply
being able to buy shoes you don't need
to impress people you don't like at a
job that you hate for a very very long
time and for most people even with the
best purpose in the world and listening
to all of the impact theories and the
modern wisdoms and the Goggins and
everything else
they are going to need more than just
their job they're not going to be able
to supplant their desire for family
community and connection with a room
filled with people that they can mentor
and do stuff because this is a very
non-typical job for most people to have
we have all of these different Dynamics
everything is changing up in the air in
terms of mating Dynamics in terms of the
sexual revolution in terms of the roles
that men and women have culturally the
position that men and women hold
educationally and in terms of employment
this is a messy messy messy situation
and I think that turning down the volume
on the conversation in terms of how
competitive men and women see each other
pedestalizing motherhood so that if
women do want to have kids that they are
not shamed out of having it because it
makes them feel like they're a
second-class citizen that would also be
absolutely fantastic like those starting
points at the very very least to be able
to go how about we try and work together
to make men worthy of women
and to make women
accepting of those men to not
I saw this video that went super super
viral you might have seen it on Twitter
of a girl in the gym and a guy was sort
of looking past her at at some point and
then he sort of looks over I think she's
filming herself doing hip thrusts or
something like that and uh a lot of
people in the comments were saying as as
men saying this is why I'm terrified of
going up to girls I'm absolutely
terrified of going up and approaching a
woman because I'm scared that she's
going to think that I'm some sort of
creep and that doesn't create a very
conducive environment for men and women
to actually and again like there are
extreme situations that are
significantly more common than they
should be where women really do have and
bad encounters with guys
do you want to Nerf every single man on
the planet so that they never go up and
approach a woman because of that I don't
know that doesn't have a life theory
that I I am very eager for people to
understand
there's pathology on both sides
communism is evil
fascism is evil they are as far apart at
their beginning motivations as you can
be
you have to find something in the middle
and so guys being predatory is evil
guys being weak is evil and you have to
find that thing in the middle do you
know how Bill and Melinda Gates man
how she worked for him correct so she
works for him as a receptionist or an
assistant type role and Bill is founder
CEO managing director whatever of
Microsoft in the 80s I think and he's
noticed Melinda around the office and
pretty tidy so he's gonna maybe it's
tidy pretty tidy so she's gonna ask her
out and uh so he Rings her on the
internal work phone and says it's Bill I
I feel like I would it would be good we
should we should go out sometimes when
do you fancy going out he says um how's
three weeks tomorrow she says bill
I don't think that he's sufficiently
spontaneous for me this isn't going to
work
finish the phone call he brings back 30
minutes later and he says you've got the
rest of the afternoon off work how's
this for spontaneous could you imagine
if CEO founder of big tech company Rings
receptionist asking her out and then
after she says no rings her back again
nope game over again like are we saying
that we need to go back to some Harvey
Weinstein era where everything is
everything's free game absolutely not
but it's more than 50 of people
um starting their relationships online
at the moment and they don't stick about
as long relationships that start online
are not as uh they don't have the
longevity they don't have the staying
power
the correlation is there the causation
I'm not too sure why I would take a stab
the environment in which you meet your
partner
buckets them
into a particular type of person
there is a smaller cohort number of
people that you work with than you see
online
which means that there are more
replacement options available for
somebody that you meet online I think
also you are pre-selecting for similar
interests similar location similar a lot
of other things you have the support
structure of the people around you if
you're talking about dating within work
or within church or within the gym that
you go to or whatever it might be all of
these things
Provide support they allow you to ask
somebody else that's been at the company
longer than you about whether that guy
is actually nice or not so you
pre-select for all of the things that
you wanted whereas on the Internet it's
a cold approach right it's just a it's a
cold call email that's the equivalent
and also it is significantly more
replaceable I mean this is we haven't
even really touched on it but the
globalization of the sexual Marketplace
has meant that everybody is competing
with everybody else
every woman now in Utah has to compete
with every woman who lives in New York
for the attention of some high value guy
and if there is some dude that used to
be
990 out of 1000 in the particular small
town that he lives in you are way way
way way down the pecking order when it
comes to I think the equivalent is if
you were uh 700 out of a thousand in a
normal small size town there are 15
million men ahead of you on Instagram in
terms of your mate value like that seven
out of ten thing right
it's not good
it's not good and it means that it is
very very difficult for you to why
should you stick with a partner why
should you go through hard times just
somebody else I can just get back on
Tinder straight away
I can just continue to swipe until I
find somebody else that replaces this
sub-optimal relationship because
something bad has happened and then in
this same situation all of the stuff
that we've been talking about you know
the subtleties and the nuances of this
I'm not saying that someone should put
up with the relationship that they don't
want to be in
but it's important to have a
conversation where you go how much baby
in bath water has been thrown out here
when we've gotten rid of traditional
dating techniques traditional
um ways that men and women would meet
and deal with problems together like how
flippant should you be how easy and
quick should you dispense with this
person that you've been with because
there is something new and shinier out
there frame of reference man is
everything so I if I were going to write
a book which I'm not currently uh but if
I were it would be about frame of
reference
getting people to understand you have a
bunch of beliefs
values
and a bunch of other things but let's
take beliefs and values for a second
people mistake them for objective truth
and they think oh I I am just
recognizing the world the way that it
actually is and the way that the world
actually is is being with this person
she's not perfect and I'm better off
going and getting another person that's
a belief now I have a different base
what I call Base assumption so my base
assumption is if your solution to every
problem is just to replace the person
that you'll never develop the depth
because you can never make them feel
secure and one thing I want at least to
know it was really difficult for me to
decide to propose but once I decided to
propose I literally scarred myself to
make sure I would remember I'm a
different person there is no going back
and once you
have that belief that rule that value
system now all of a sudden you're
operating very differently so when I
think about because you had said to
solve a lot of these problems you're
gonna have to use cultural technology
yes
and while I don't entirely know what you
mean by cultural technology I certainly
get the gist so yeah it's like
repurposing what it means to
potentialize Motherhood would be a
cultural technology perfect so I agree
wholeheartedly I use different words and
I would say it's going to be beliefs and
value systems
I want to do something that almost
certainly we will look back on in 20
years and both be embarrassed but let's
make a prediction because I have a
prediction not what I want to happen
what I'm worried will happen because
when and let's define the problem so I'm
gonna step into your world and say okay
there's a mating crisis that's the
problem uh to further Define it from my
side I will say mating crime I'm just
bucketing these in really clumsy big
buckets for simplicity's sake but that
this is basically boils down to a
problem of
we we have not yet found in a modern era
the definition of what it means to be a
real man and a real woman where they can
work together well over a long period of
time so we we haven't even run the
experiment yet so we're in this sort of
modern things maybe I'm going on for
15-ish years
um and now we're gonna get a watch how
it plays out what I think I I don't
think we will ever be able to pull
people back and so when I started impact
Theory it was legitimately aimed at all
ages I actually thought I would
primarily focus on adults after reading
a billion Wicked thoughts and working a
quest for as long as I did and actually
trying this on adults I realized nope
only about two percent of people will
encounter a new idea and change their
life at a foundational level
and so I was like I'm Giving Up on
adults so then it becomes only about
kids and for me The Sweet Spot is 11 to
15 it's what's known as the age of
imprinting it's where you're really
gonna be able to give people cultural
technology and change the trajectory of
their life and by that I mean give them
new beliefs new value systems
okay so if we can agree on that problem
and we I don't know if we agree but I
certainly believe you can't win back
adults so the people that are headed
down a dumb path they're they're going
to play out the whole experiment there's
you're not going to get them back
so what's going to happen is
Whoever has a more modernized
but somewhat more traditional set of
views so that there are roles not Fred
Flintstone Club around the head stuck in
the kitchen not that that's dumb I think
we both agree on that but a modernized
version that has roles that doesn't
deviate too far from what you keep
calling biological predisposition
perfect so it's not deviating too far
from that so what I think is going to
happen is all these weird countries for
people that don't know that I mean the
acronym Western educated industrialized
thank you you should probably give them
the r and the D I don't know the rest of
them uh what is it what is it people the
lessons democratized I think
you get the idea the Western world uh
they all have these terrible birth rates
they are going to be
just sort of slowly consumed by
places with a higher birth rate which
means they're probably more traditional
and that's just going to become
culturally dominant that cultural
narrative will take over and all of a
sudden that will be the cool thing again
and we'll get more to that so when I was
a kid hopefully I can sum this all up
with this
we just keep looping and as a kid I
heard about Caligula and I was just
heartbroken that we don't have orgies
and I didn't know at the time that he
was [__] evil I just knew that Romans
had orgies and that sounded awesome and
I was 14 and I couldn't imagine anything
cooler and so I was like why don't we
have orgies now like this really sucks I
was really crestfallen and I started
thinking there there has to be something
that causes us to sort of become
Puritans again but I could not
understand what that is I think we're
living it right now you end up creating
a cultural moment however you do it
where that culture becomes vulnerable
either to being truly conquered
take the Romans falls apart from the
inside or now where it's like we just
aren't having kids like the more you go
God this is what I'm gonna get [__]
Council for this
the more you educate women the less they
have kids the more vulnerable you are
now to to cultural collapse again it's
awesome my wife isn't having kids I'm
the guy creating that problem
is and this is how you end up re-looping
and so at some point the birth rate of
more traditional cultures will just
overtake
70 of countries worldwide are beyond the
birthright Tipping Point right so
they're producing 70 worldwide the
sub-Saharan African countries that
you're referring to which will be the
ones that are maybe more traditional
that you think oh it's fine you know
we're not going to run out of that many
people it's going to be okay
every 15 years the average number of
births per mother declines by one so
it's six then it's five then it's four
and that's every 15. now for the people
out there that say uh good humans are a
Scourge on the earth in any case the
Earth is overpopulated
you are unreachable and wrong that the
Earth has way more carrying capacity
than it does at the moment we're not
going to break 10 billion people and
we're going to fall very very quickly by
2050 China is going to have 650 million
oh my God there's 1.2 billion in it now
China and Japan and South Korea have the
worst uh imbalances with regards to this
the worst birth rates Japan's 125
million people at the moment is going to
be 60 65 billion people by 2050.
whoa so this is not just going to be
something that creeps up on us this is
going to happen precipitously within
pretty much everybody that's listening
to this his lifetime and
that doesn't sound like a very good
situation either like if you think that
a world where there are too many people
there aren't too many people on it is
difficult wait until there's more old
people than young people because that is
some sort of dystopian hell on Earth and
maybe there's going to be something that
happens whereby it gets squeezed and
then we're going to have the next
generation is going to start having more
kids but I see nothing that suggests
that that's going to be the case
so if I was to make a prediction to roll
the clock forward for the next you know
20 to 40 years or something like that
there is going to be a huge huge
drop-off in terms of the number of
people you know
how is it the case that the population
can continue getting older and yet the
total number of people on the planet can
continue getting bigger and populations
decline within certain areas well it's
because people are living longer so you
have this ever aging civilization whilst
there are no new people that are coming
in and yeah I mean dude the US may be
filled with a lot of Mormons so my
assistant's moment sounds great they
produce a hell of a lot of children but
you are going to end up with some very
odd pockets of Highly fertile
subcultures within entire countries and
societies that are declining and it's
not fun it's not very very good
um this Stephen Shore guy birth Gap
he spent the last seven years traveling
around 24 different countries data
scientists looking at it and
the interesting thing about declining
birth rates is an existential risk is it
doesn't Galvanize anybody
there's no smoke in the sky there's no
asteroid coming towards us there's no
movies about Arnold Schwarzenegger
crashing through your House's ceiling
and and landing and we also have what
you were talking about earlier which is
there is a huge and growing cohort of
people who believe that people are a
virus correct that [__] really scares me
Peterson said on my show
I can't think of a thought more
implicitly genocidal than that yes that
humans are a Scourge on the earth and
that they we shouldn't have any more
that people shouldn't have children
do people not realize how brutal nature
is nature doesn't give a [__]
dude nature will eat you with ants
nature will put a parasite in your brain
that makes you I mean think about what
it does to the toxoplasmosis yeah
a virus gets in your brain makes the rat
like the smell of cat urine and it they
they will jump on cats and then they
catch the [__] eat them it dude
nature is ruthless so yeah I don't get
the like uh
before I just willy-nilly put a
statement out like that that I have not
uh thought nearly deeply enough I will
say we need to be thoughtful about the
planet all a hundred percent but to go
so far as to see nature as like the kind
and gentle thing in the humans is the
brutal thing I think is is deeply flawed
Alex Epstein calls it human racism he
says that people look at humans as being
this sort of uh disease that's that's
covered the Earth and that the Earth
would be this beautifully balanced thing
without us it's like the Earth's gonna
be fine
the Earth is going to be absolutely fine
your perception of where what Earth
means may change but really what people
are concerned about and this is a
virtuous side of of climate Justice is
that they don't want the Earth to become
inhospitable to humans like that's what
they're trying to avoid because other
animals and plants will be fine some
will go away and new ones will come
along right so if you just look at the
ecology overall
it will be fine we will be the ones that
are [__] so it's actually quite a
pro-human basis that it comes from and
I'm like oh well you know get behind
that but when you also hear in the same
sentence that don't have kids
don't be the only Shepherds that can
actually stop if there is a natural
disaster if there is an asteroid heading
toward Earth
the Lions aren't going to do anything
about it the only people that can are
humans that have got some technological
capabilities yes should we be careful
about what was spewing out into the
atmosphere yes should we be working on
Renewables etc etc etc like that
evidently
but who do you think is going to do the
Innovation if there's no new people
around
yeah
talk to me about the black pill I didn't
even know about this until I started
researching you I never heard of the
black pill the red pill I knew the black
pill I did not I heard an interview you
did with a guy who I think is a black
pill wheat waffles yes Community person
yes uh and some of the underlying
assumptions that seemed to be present in
that frame of reference I found
unnerving for them
um
what what is the black pill and do you
see a path out or is it advantageous
black pill ideology is a approach to
understanding mating Dynamics mostly
held by men but there are some women
that are a part of it and
it
suggests that it sees the world actually
as it is that this is the fundamental
way that dating Dynamics work they work
off LMS so Lux money status in that
order is what is most important for a
man to become attractive to a woman and
basically everything else is kind of
Superfluous along with that now
one of the things that you get from the
black pill and in cells which would be I
guess tacked onto the side of that
slightly separate but similar you get a
community of people who can
support each other in their challenges
within the dating market and that's not
nothing you know if you're a lonely Guy
having a community of people that you
can
um
that understand the challenges you're
facing isn't nothing now William
Costello one of my good friends who's
done he's the number one in-cell
researcher in the world found that
ascending which is becoming someone who
would finally be attractive to women as
a guy is very much looked down on within
the incel community inside black below
the same thing just to put that out
there but within the Intel Community
ascending is something that's not
supposed to be done and ascending isn't
just you know having sex with a woman or
holding hands with a woman or even being
getting a message back up a woman it
would be if you posted in one of the
in-cell forums that the girl at Barista
Barista at Starbucks that served you
your coffee looked at you for a little
bit longer than you thought and maybe
this means that she's interested in me
that it's ascending that would be a cent
that would be seen as beginning to
ascend yeah because it would be giving
hope to yourself that you might be a
might be they wouldn't want to work out
and get better and self-improve because
they would say that it's fundamentally
flawed that they are broken individuals
themselves the way that they are and the
reason that they don't want anybody to
show in my opinion the reason that
they're so averse to that being a uh
something that gets posted in some of
these subforms this isn't the same for
all of them the reason that they have a
problem with it is that it gives hope
and if you have hope that means that
maybe you're not so broken and maybe the
reason that you're not having sex could
be fixed and one of the worst things why
isn't that the best news ever
well because if you fail that means that
it wasn't pre-ordained
that means that perhaps it is your fault
or perhaps you could do something to
change this if it's unchangeable right
then it doesn't matter you have no
culpability you have nothing to worry
about or fear about you can rail against
the world and how unfair it is uh and
you would get support from the group
with regards this this isn't every
in-cell group this isn't every black
pill group
um but they focus on Lux money and
status if you had three minutes alone
with
somebody who was black pilled uh
would you just be like cool it's nice to
meet you or would you be like all right
look we only have three minutes there's
just a couple ideas I want to get across
really fast yeah so um I would say
something along the lines of
I was hopelessly alone and uh bullied
when I was in school I was the most
unpopular kid throughout all of school I
was an only child very socially awkward
and you would not have picked me as
being anybody that would have become
even slightly competent in life let
alone being in relationships and being
happy and so on and so forth you do not
know the path that your life is going to
take you down over the longer term you
do not know how you are going to grow up
the way that you're going to look the
way that you're going to become
competent or competent or any of these
different things so condemning yourself
to a type of ideology Where You Are
giving up hope is not going to be useful
to you because you don't know what's
coming around the corner yes there are
some challenges that you're going to
face but what do you want to do
you want to roll over and just allow the
world to continue to kick you in the
teeth the pessimist is always going to
be able to prove himself right
so I would try to show the tons and tons
and tons of examples of young guys who
have struggled in finding a purpose in
finding a community and finding friends
and girls and all of the things that
young guys want to do
you have impact on that you have agents
and you have sovereignty over the
direction that your life is going to go
in and I can speak to that from a
first-hand example that I've gone from
being literally like the worst most
unpopular uncool person chronically
bullied throughout all of school
to now having a bunch of friends that I
respect and respect me to having a
career that I really care about
to contributing to the world in a way
that
it feels like a life that wasn't
supposed to be for me
and
the reason that that happened at least
in part is because I wanted to make
things change and if you're around a
community of people that encourage you
to not change
you're going to end up
living out that pessimistic life and
you're going to prove it to yourself
that it was true
what do they think about somebody like a
Bill Gates is it are they saying well so
not only am I not good looking but I'm
not smart like Bill Gates
is that because it's like if okay looks
fine the I mean you could do plastic
surgery but Jesus even if we rule that
out and we say there's nothing you can
do to look better
which is so not true but let's just say
you still have money and Status so it's
like bro like go have you watched
Yellowstone no oh my God so good
it's so good there in fact there's one
line and then I will get back to my
initial Point there's a line in that
that made me fall in love and this guy
is um a total [__] up he comes on the
ranch and he's becoming a cowboy and
it's brutally hard and this kid hates
his life and he's just an agonizing pain
and the guy comes up to him and says
it's tough work becoming a man isn't it
but it sure beats the alternative and I
was like God yes exactly okay back to
our guy so you can in in Yellowstone the
reason I brought it up is this same kid
uh discovers that he's good at the rodeo
and that there are certain women who are
just really attracted to guys that are
good at the rodeo and so he's like whoa
my whole life I've felt like a loser not
particularly attractive but I'm good at
this thing and there's a certain type of
person that's attracted to people that
are good at this thing like they just
haven't explored the world like there's
go get good at something you yourself
are saying that money and Status are a
thing why why isn't the community
obsessed with all right guys we're
[__] on the looks front but money and
Status we got this let's go um well yeah
I mean they would try I think they would
try and say well they would do looks
maxing and if looks maxing wouldn't work
status maxing Jester maxing which would
be trying to become oh funny yeah
correct you see you're part of it
already there it is um that was my first
strategy so I get it
my point being that yeah the guys will
try and accumulate looks money and
status and if they can't get looked then
they will try and get better but all of
that's ascending to me uh this would be
this would be within the Intel world so
when it comes to Blackpool which again
is like a an umbrella these things are
interplay in very very delicate ways uh
the black pill ideology would say if you
don't have a minimum bar of looks no
woman is going to be able to get past
that it's very unfalsifiable you know
wheat waffles the the guy behind that
channel is a a really interesting
Creator but even like it's a even him
it can be quite stonewalled with regards
to this because it's a very absolutist
philosophy in fact maybe he's right
maybe maybe maybe this is the way that
the world is for a cohort of guys you
know especially within in sales I think
30 of incels are either neurodivergent
in some way like autism Asperger
Spectrum or some way physically disabled
so you have this like community of guys
who feel forgotten and alone by Society
like who who am I to say that this
community of people who also suffering
along with them isn't isn't giving them
support but yeah I mean money and status
is something that you can always try and
achieve the problem would be the way
that would be unfalsifiable would be
oh well without the looks you're going
to struggle to achieve the money because
pretty privilege halo effect and without
the looks you're also going to struggle
to achieve the status because people
want to be around people that look well
um it's a it's can we just run two paths
in the hopes that somebody in that
Community is listening all right so
you're horribly burned I'm talking face
gone burned
there are two paths before you you're
you're not getting laid like the odds of
that I'll I'll just grant you that that
would be so difficult even for somebody
with my mindset getting late if you're
horribly burned and scarred [__] like I
can't imagine I don't wish that on
anybody so okay cool that that's done
but there are two paths before you you
can be angry about it and you can focus
your energy on how there's nothing I can
do I can never change it my identity is
wrapped around the fact that I will
never get this identify as a part of any
Community that's like don't Ascend just
accept that you're never going to have
that and this is your Brotherhood or
option two is you figure out what you
love and you go after that thing you
find other people maybe it's just a
Brotherhood
and you find other people in the same
way that you were able to find black
pill people I promise you you're going
to be able to find other people over
here burn too unattractive whatever but
that are like well I'm gonna Max
everything else yes I'm gonna find
meaning and purpose I'm gonna write a
book I'm gonna become a poet I'm going
to become a cowboy out uh [__]
woodworker whatever like you're gonna
find something that you're just really
gonna go hard and you're gonna alter
your frame of reference I don't think
people understand how malleable beliefs
and values are and that you can decide
that I don't know the only thing that
matters in life is how much farther you
go than where you start so cool I
started at minus ten thousand so my job
is to get to minus nine thousand and
nine hundred word like but you can build
that frame of reference and now reward
yourself emotionally for every step of
progress that you make forward
and it I really really my life is about
getting people to understand that one
idea that's why impact Theory exists
that's why I didn't just take money and
retire like if people understood the
psychological difference even just in my
own life remember I did not used to be
wealthy I did not used to have success
in business I did not used to have
success with women I didn't I was never
I would let a six six and a half looks
wise cool so I meet minimum bar so I
didn't have that going against me but I
had the other stuff but my life changed
when I realized oh wait focusing on the
fact that I'm just smart enough to
realize how much smarter everybody
else's is [__] miserable and so it
doesn't make sense it doesn't if I keep
investing in that and I keep focusing on
it I still believe it's true by the way
I really am just smart enough to realize
that I'll never be the goat but it's
like well I can death loop on that or I
can focus on cool word I'm never gonna
be the best but how much better can I
make my life now because I made that
choice I ended up getting wealthy and
all all that stuff but that it's not
like that was self-evident I didn't know
that that was going to be the outcome I
was just like it doesn't make sense to
brood over this because to me all that
matters is how you feel about yourself
when you're by yourself so if I focus on
that I'm never going to be as smart as
the smartest people that's going to be
really unhappy if I focus instead on
well but can I get better than I am
today can I get a lot better like can i
max out the amount that I can get better
not that other people won't get better
than me and go farther than me uh did
that change everything in my life
everything everything and now seeing how
far that's taken me emotionally
financially in relationships uh as fast
as I can talk I'm trying to get people
to understand it's a change of frame of
reference and then everything else
changes
pushback against that
for all that it might be the person who
is badly burned and is going to focus on
all of this stuff don't forget that at
the beginning of this we said humans are
supposed to be together but the the
partnership thing the lack of
relationship is going to be something
that you're going to focus on an awful
lot because it's something that you
can't get
and this is why I have a massive amount
of Sympathy for the guys what do you say
to that person yeah I'm really sorry
focus on it more and just know that you
have my sympathy yeah that's what you
would say no firstly I would say no
firstly I would say uh that sucks that's
very very difficult and the fact that
this is a challenge that you're going
through is something that
you shouldn't take lightly like it's a
big deal and you shouldn't treat it like
it's something that isn't a big deal
there are certain things that you do
have control over in life and you should
focus on those I agree with your point I
can just also see why it must be so
painful for people who are chronically
alone and don't feel like they can have
anybody around them you know it's a
difference between going camping and
being homeless right like the people
that choose to be single big out of
choice are the people that are single
because they're forced and it
it's difficult and it's painful and it
causes these people to be lonely
um
a lot of guys I think that are suffering
with this will grow out of it you know
the guys that are 17 18 you have no idea
where you're going to be in 10 15 years
time you have no idea what sort of a
person you're going to become the way
that you're going to look the kind of
people that you're going to meet or
lifestyle that you're going to have and
even if LMS is still the ground truth of
whatever attraction is in your
particular worldview
there are an unlimited number of
different paths that you could go down
in future that are going to make that
way way way easier
yeah do you have sympathy for them or
empathy or both both
I was that guy for a long time I was
that lonely guy that didn't understand
why I didn't have friends why
um I used to obsess over things like how
people tied their ties in school or the
type of shoes that they would have or
the way that they would cut their hair
or something because I was adamant that
that was the reason why they had friends
and I didn't I didn't realize it's
because I just didn't really understand
how social connections worked I wasn't
particularly socially Adept and it meant
that I struggled with that
so I empathize I know what it's like to
be alone
I do
if you had to
turn them around
emotionally because we're I'm going to
accept that in this thought experiment
they will never have a partner
but if you had to help them live a life
of
fulfilling I can't help but use my frame
of reference here
Do you have a
a thing that you could do that you think
would help them all the stuff that
you've spoken about today find purpose
meaning the capacity to do it contribute
to community do things that make the
world a better place it's the same
things that we do with a partner is
without a partner life is
it can be very difficult it can be
incredibly challenging especially when
you don't have something that you're
contributing to that you care about
and if you are able to find that and you
can continue to iterate on what are you
interested in what are you gonna what
are you interested in what are you good
at that's a good place to start maybe
it's the gym maybe it's Artistry maybe
it's giving back to a community maybe
it's looking after dogs and going dog
walking maybe it's watercolors or
whatever it is that you do once you do
find that thing it's going to make your
life an awful lot easier
so many guys we said it before need that
outlet for all of that forward momentum
and if you do not have that if you don't
have something that you can focus all of
that attention onto
you're going to suffer and you're
already suffering as are all of us
and you're suffering maybe a little bit
more
the pessimist is always going to prove
himself right so try and find a way
to find a Pursuit that is going to make
you feel satisfied in life that's going
to give you something to apply all of
this forward momentum and desire to
I think it's very good advice where can
people follow you
Chris Williamson on YouTube if they want
to go and check out an episode the
recent one I did with David Goggins is
available you know needed a couple of on
his most recent book tours so that can
be linked in the show notes below and uh
dude I appreciate you I've been a big
fan of your show for a long time very
very glad that you've had me here I'm
honored man you're an amazing voice in
this space and I'm super excited about
what you're doing
all right everybody if you haven't
already be sure to subscribe and until
next time my friends be legendary take
care peace
learn how to detox from dopamine and
take back control of your life with this
episode from Dr Andrew huberman
then what you realize is your capacity
to tap into dopamine as a motivator not
just seeking dopamine rewards that is
infinite and I